KB: update the fstrim document with windows info (#59)
harvester/harvesterhci.io: kb/2024-01-30/the_potential_risk_with_fstrim.md

:::

Filesystem trim is a common way to release unused space in a filesystem. However, this operation is known to cause IO errors when used with Longhorn volumes that are rebuilding. For more information about the errors, see the following issues:

- Harvester: [Issue 4793](https://github.com/harvester/harvester/issues/4739)
- Longhorn: [Issue 7103](https://github.com/longhorn/longhorn/issues/7103)

> ## Risks Associated with Trim Filesystem Usage

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Risks Associated with Filesystem Trim
```

A consequence of the IO errors caused by filesystem trim is that VMs using affected Longhorn volumes become stuck. Imagine the VM is running critical applications, then becomes unavailable. This is significant because Harvester typically uses Longhorn volumes as VM disks. The IO errors will cause VMs to flap between running and paused states until volume rebuilding is completed.

Although the described system behavior does not affect data integrity, it might induce panic in some users. Consider the guest Kubernetes cluster scenario. In a stuck VM, the etcd service is unavailable. The effects of this failure cascade from the Kubernetes cluster becoming unavailable to services running on the cluster becoming unavailable.

> ## How to Check If Trim Filesystem Is Enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Check If Filesystem Trim Is Enabled
```

Although the described system behavior does not affect data integrity, it might induce panic in some users. Consider the guest Kubernetes cluster scenario. In a stuck VM, the etcd service is unavailable. The effects of this failure cascade from the Kubernetes cluster becoming unavailable to services running on the cluster becoming unavailable.

> ## How to Confirm the FSTRIM is enabled

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## How to Confirm the fstrim is enabled
```

We can be consistent with the previous title.

> ## How to Confirm the fstrim is enabled

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## How to Check If fstrim Is Enabled
```

### Linux

In most Linux distributions, fstrim is enabled by default. You can check if fstrim is enabled by running the following command:

```
$ systemctl status fstrim.timer
● fstrim.timer - Discard unused blocks once a week
     Loaded: loaded (/lib/systemd/system/fstrim.timer; enabled; vendor preset: enabled)
     Active: active (waiting) since Mon 2024-03-18 03:40:24 UTC; 1 week 1 day ago
    Trigger: Mon 2024-04-01 01:00:06 UTC; 5 days left
   Triggers: ● fstrim.service
       Docs: man:fstrim

Mar 18 03:40:24 harvester-cluster-01-pool1-49b619f6-tpc4v systemd[1]: Started Discard unused blocks once a week.
```

> If the fstrim.timer service is enabled, means the system will execute fstrim periodically.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When the fstrim.timer service is enabled, the system periodically runs fstrim.
```

### Windows

> On Windows, you can check if fstrim is enabled by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can check if fstrim is enabled by running the following command:
```

```
C:\> fsutil behavior query DisableDeleteNotify
NTFS DisableDeleteNotify = 0  (Allows TRIM operations to be sent to the storage device)
ReFS DisableDeleteNotify = 0  (Allows TRIM operations to be sent to the storage device)
```

> The result `DisableDeleteNotify = 0` means TRIM operations are enabled.
> The detailed information can be found in the [Microsoft documentation](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/fsutil-behavior).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`DisableDeleteNotify = 0` indicates that TRIM operations are enabled. For more information, see [fsutil behavior](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-server/administration/windows-commands/fsutil-behavior) in the Microsoft documentation.
```

    AccuracySec=1h
    Persistent=true
    RandomizedDelaySec=6000
    ```

### Windows

> Disable the TRIM operation on Windows will mitigate the described risks, you can refer the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To mitigate the described risks, you can disable TRIM operations using the following commands:
```

> - To disable TRIM operation on ReFS v2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- ReFS v2
```

> ```

Reviewer 2: indent the code blocks for consistency. Check the preview: https://deploy-preview-59--harvester-home-preview.netlify.app/kb/the_potential_risk_with_fstrim

C:\> fsutil behavior set DisableDeleteNotify ReFS 1
```

> - To disable TRIM operation on NTFS and ReFS v1:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- NTFS and ReFS v1
```
